# Ars Elixirum Documentation

## Legal Notice

This documentation is provided for **informational purposes only** and is not affiliated with or endorsed by the creators of Ars Elixirum. Ars Elixirum is the intellectual property of **Obscuria Team**, and all rights to the mod and its contents are reserved by them.

The guide provided here explains how to create a datapack that interacts with Ars Elixirum, but the mod itself is not my work. All **trademarks, logos, and copyrighted content** related to Ars Elixirum **belong to their respective owners.**

This documentation is intended for **personal, non-commercial use** and is meant to help users create custom content for the Ars Elixirum mod in compliance with the mod's terms and conditions.

---

## Key Concepts

> NOTE: These key points are not the only things this guide provides. These are only the most important concepts to make more relevant things in the datapack.

- [Adding Custom Essences](#essence-folder)
- [Manually setting ingredients for an item](#ingredient-preset-folder)

- [Tags](#tags)
  - [Filtering ingredient generation](#filter-ingredients)
  - [Adding custom heat sources](#adding-new-heat-sources)

## Folders Structure

```bash
data/
└── elixirum/
    ├── elixirum/
    │   ├── configured_elixir
    │   ├── elixir_prefix
    │   ├── essence
    │   └── ingredient_preset
    └── tags/
        ├── block/
        │   └── heat_sources.json
        └── item/
            ├── essence_blacklist.json
            ├── essence_whitelist.json
            └── potion_shelf_placeable.json
```

---

## Elixirum Folder

Inside the `elixirum` folder, create another `elixirum` folder, which will contain everything we will make.

### Configured Elixir Folder

Contains an effect (referencing a pre-made essence) that can have multiple variants. You can only modify *amplifier* and *duration*.

The file name must be the essence name.

**Template (taken from the mod code):**

```json
{
  "variants": [
    [
      {
        "amplifier": 0,
        "duration": 60,
        "essence": "elixirum:health_boost"
      }
    ],
    [
      {
        "amplifier": 2,
        "duration": 180,
        "essence": "elixirum:health_boost"
      }
    ],
    [
      {
        "amplifier": 5,
        "duration": 360,
        "essence": "elixirum:health_boost"
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

---

### Elixir Prefix Folder

Applies a random prefix to the essence (e.g., "Devastating elixir of strength"). It takes a lang key from the lang file and applies it as a prefix.

**Template (taken from the mod code):**

```json
{
  "key": "effect_prefix.elixirum.absorption_assimilating",
  "source": "minecraft:absorption"
}
```

---

### Essence Folder

The most important folder. Essences are what form the final elixir.
Here you will add your effects with the following parameters:

- **category**: can be "NONE", "OFFENSIVE", "DEFENSIVE", "ENHANCING", "DIMINISHING". This determines how the essence behaves with affixes.
- **max_amplifier**: sets the maximum amplifier (starting from 0) the essence can have. The essence can have any amplifier below this number.
- **max_duration**: sets the maximum duration, in game ticks, the essence can have. The essence can have any duration below this number.
- **mob_effect**: the ID of the effect you want the essence to have (e.g., "farmersdelight:comfort").
- **required_ingredients**: minimum amount of ingredient to make this essence non-pale.
- **required_quality**: minimum amount of quality to make this essence non-weak.

The file name must be the effect name (without namespace).

**Template (generated by my code):**

```json
{
  "category": "enhancing",
  "max_amplifier": 3,
  "max_duration": 1200,
  "mob_effect": "farmersdelight:comfort",
  "required_ingredients": 1,
  "required_quality": 10
}
```

---

### Ingredient Preset Folder

An ingredient preset is used to override completely the ingredient generation, by manually setting an ingredient to an item or tag with a corresponding weight (quantity). This will override any [tag filter](#filter-ingredients).
> **Note**: Almost every item in the game will have a randomly generated effect based on the seed.

**Parameters:**

- **essences**: contains every essence that the set item will have
  - **ESSENCE_ID** (using "elixirum:" as namespace): weight
- **target**: contains the item ID

The file name must be the item name.

**Template (taken from the mod code):**

```json
{
  "essences": {
    "elixirum:saturation": 20
  },
  "target": "minecraft:blue_orchid"
}
```

---

## Tags

With tags you can filter ingredients, make items placeable on shelves and make heat sources compatible with cauldrons.

Here's how:

---

### Filter Ingredients

To add an item to the ingredient gen blacklist, you add the tag `#elixirum:essence_blacklist`. This will **ALWAYS** override the whitelist

You can also add item to a whitelist by adding the tag `#elixirum:essence_whitelist`. Does nothing if the item is in the blacklist.

---

### Making Items Placeable On Shelves

You can make item placeable on shelves by adding the tag `#elixirum:potion_shelf_placeable`

---

### Adding New Heat Sources

You can make an heat source compatible with Ars Elixirum's cauldrons by adding the tag `#elixirum:heat_sources`

By default the compatible heat sources are the following:

> heat_sources.json

```json
{
  "values": [
    {
      "id": "#minecraft:fire",
      "required": false
    },
    {
      "id": "#minecraft:campfires",
      "required": false
    },
    "minecraft:magma_block"
  ]
}
```

---

##### Documentation written by DVOA1 | 2025
